# fflowsmain

Lauren Chew, with CM flow data from Jonathan Cohen, supervised by Jon Herman

Key Terms: Computational hydrology, water managagement, Climate Change

Adapted code from https://eflow.gitbook.io/ffc-readme/ by Sarah Yarnell and Noelle Patterson

Intensively managed river basins face substantial projected alterations to the hydrologic regime from a combination of climate change, land use change, and reservoir management. All of these factors may interfere with ecologically relevant flow characteristics known as functional flows, which include the timing, duration, and magnitude of seasonal hydrologic events. However, it remains to be studied to what extent each of these factors will contribute to changes in functional flows in the future, and furthermore, whether reservoir management will mitigate or amplify the projected impacts of climate change. This study contributes an analysis of projected changes to functional flow metrics in northern California, driven by an ensemble of downscaled hydroclimate projections through the end of the century. A multi-reservoir simulation model is used to determine the additional influence of water management on ecologically relevant flow metrics, as well as the potential to modify system operations to maintain functional flows while meeting other operating objectives such as water supply, flood control, and electricity generation. Results indicate that metrics focused on seasonal timing are primarily driven by reservoir storage, with some influence due to the shift from snow to rain under climate change. Peak flow metrics, however, are primarily driven by climate, and show a large range of variability across the ensemble of downscaled models. This analysis provides support for modifying future reservoir operation rules to reduce damage to downstream habitat, as well as an understanding of the relative influence of climate change on key components of the flow regime in northern California.
